Hi everyone.
Today, I'm excited to share more
about App Store pricing capabilities.
I'm Camille and I work on the App Store pricing team.
In this session, we'll start with an overview
of the pricing capabilities on the App Store.
Then, we'll talk
about how the App Store global pricing tools
can help you effortlessly price your content
in 175 storefronts.
Next, we'll explore the advanced tools available
to customize pricing for each storefront.
And finally, I'll share some examples
of pricing configurations
that can help you make the most out of these new features.
So let's jump in.
With a total of 175 different storefronts,
the App Store makes it easy to distribute your apps
and games across the world.
In 72 of these storefronts,
customers can make purchases in their local currency.
For example, Japanese customers purchase in yen,
Polish customers purchase in zloty,
and Tanzanian customers purchase in shilling.
Altogether, the App Store supports 44 local currencies,
with the United States dollars
and euro each supporting multiple storefronts.
And in 77 of these storefronts,
Apple collects and remits taxes on sales to customers.
The scope changes every year,
as new taxes are introduced or existing tax rates change.
For example, 27 of these storefronts either introduced a tax
or experienced a tax change in the last two years alone.
Prices advertised to customers in all countries
except the U.S. and Canada include taxes,
so changes in tax may affect your earnings
from App Store sales if prices aren't adjusted accordingly.
To help you stay on top of changes in tax laws
and fluctuations in exchange rate,
Apple has developed a set of global pricing tools
that makes it simple for you to price your apps
and in-app purchases in all storefronts.
Apple also provides a set of tools to let you manage pricing
and availability by storefront.
Let's walk through these tools,
starting with a deep dive on the global pricing tools.
With Apple's global pricing tools,
you can select a base storefront for each app
or in-app purchase you offer on the App Store.
This allows you to select a storefront you're familiar with
as the basis for global pricing.
You'll be able to choose a price for this storefront
among 900 price point options.
Apple will then automatically generate comparable prices
across the other storefronts,
taking into account foreign exchange rates
and certain taxes.
These globally equalized prices follow
the most common pricing conventions in each storefront,
so customers see prices that's most relevant
to their region and currency.
Finally, prices other than your base
will be automatically updated
for foreign exchange and tax rate changes
to help ensure your global prices stay comparable
to your selected base price.
So let's explore how global equalization works
through an example.
Suppose you select Germany as your base storefront
and set a base price point of 7.99 euros.
Based on this choice,
Apple establishes similar prices
in the remaining 174 storefronts
based on local pricing conventions.
For instance, the US,
the UK and Canada follow a pricing convention ending in .99,
while China has price points ending in 8.
In Japan, we see even, rounded price points,
and in Korea, we see a price like 9,901
that starts with a repeating digit,
a convention that is commonly used in Korea.
Prices are globally equalized before tax,
which means customers in each country pay approximately
the same amount as your base price,
but with local taxes added on top.
As a result, proceeds in each storefront
are approximately equalized.
In this example, we can see that global proceeds
are closely equalized
to our proceeds of 4.70 euros in Germany,
and they range from 4.45 euros in Japan
to 4.88 euros in Canada.
Additionally, the pricing of your apps
and one-time in-app purchases will adjust automatically
to maintain global prices aligned with your base price
as foreign exchange and tax rates fluctuate.
Thanks to these global pricing tools,
you have an easy way to generate comparable prices
for customers around the world,
regardless of where they purchase from.
The automated price updates help you effortlessly stay
on top of foreign exchange and tax rate changes
so that global prices stay equalized
to the base price you have defined
while making sure that customers
in each storefront see recognizable prices
that are relevant to their market.
The global pricing tools
also help your global earnings stay consistent
and reduces your foreign exchange exposure.
Finally, it also limits opportunities
for customers to seek lower prices on certain storefronts.
As we'll see in the second part of this presentation,
you will always have the option to manually manage prices
in any storefront if you prefer.
However, if you select your own prices,
you will not benefit from the automatic repricing
for foreign exchange and tax,
and you will be responsible
for reflecting those changes in your prices.
So how to make the most of the global equalization feature?
The first step is to carefully select your base storefront.
Apple will use the price you define in this storefront
as the basis for generating comparable prices
in the other 174 storefronts and 43 currencies.
Your base storefront can be any of the 175 storefronts,
and the price in your base storefront
will never be automatically updated.
Prices in the other storefronts,
however, may be updated for foreign exchange and tax
to maintain global prices equalized
with the price you set for your base storefront.
Please note that this does not apply
to auto-renewable subscriptions.
So how do you decide what your base storefront should be?
If you cater to a single market,
it may make sense to select that market
as your base storefront.
If you don't have a single focus market,
you might consider your user base location
to help determine a base storefront.
For example, if most of your customer base is in Europe,
it might make sense
for you to choose a European country as base.
Another consideration could be the currency
in which your earnings are paid.
It might make sense for you
to align your base storefront and your earnings currency
in order to keep things consistent.
Note that it's not at all a requirement.
For example, if you have selected your App Store earnings
to be paid in Canadian dollars,
but you select the U.S. as your base storefront,
you will still be paid in Canadian dollars.
Another consideration is currency volatility.
If you choose a base storefront with a volatile currency,
it may result in more frequent price adjustments compared
with other storefronts.
In any case, you will define a base storefront
for each individual purchase.
So depending on your business,
you could choose different base storefronts
for different in-app purchases.
For in-app purchases
without a base storefront explicitly defined,
the base storefront defined at the app level
is inherited by the associated in-app purchases.
And if no base storefront
is defined neither at the app or in-app level,
the U.S. is the assumed base storefront by default.
To illustrate the impact
of your choice of base storefront on global prices,
let's look at two scenarios.
In the first scenario,
Germany is selected as the base storefront
with a base price of 7.99 euros.
Comparable prices are automatically generated
for the other storefronts,
and prices will remain equalized with the German price,
even if there are fluctuations
in tax or foreign exchange rates.
For instance, if the U.S. dollar
and British pound weaken against the euro
and other currencies,
prices in the U.S. and the UK would increase
to maintain price equalization with Germany.
Now looking at the same scenario,
this time with the United Kingdom selected
as the base storefront.
The starting point is the same,
with a base price of 6.99 pounds
and comparable prices automatically generated
for the other storefronts, including Germany.
However, if we consider the same change in foreign exchange
as in our previous example,
prices in the U.S. would remain the same while prices
in the other storefronts would this time decrease
to reflect the same change.
Once you have chosen a base storefront,
the second step is to choose your base price.
You can choose from 900 price points
in the currency of your base storefront.
By default, you have access to 800 prices up to $1,000
and similar prices worldwide.
On request, you can also access
an additional 100 higher price points as high as $10,000.
Prices start at 29 cents in the US,
with lower priced options available
in most emerging markets.
For example, the lowest price in India is 9 rupee,
which is about 9 U.S. dollar cents,
and the lowest price in China is 1 Chinese yuan,
which is equivalent to 15 U.S. dollar cents.
For all markets, you will be able
to choose among several common pricing conventions
and select the one that is the most suited
to your marketing purposes.
Looking, for example, at the U.S. 900 prices,
we can see that steps between price points
are smaller for lower price points
and gradually decrease as prices increase.
10 cents price steps are supported
until $10 and 50 cents price steps are supported until $50.
In terms of conventions,
you have the choice between four conventions.
You can opt to use .99 endings, like 9.99,
or to incorporate different price endings,
like whole numbers or endings in .90 or .95
that could be useful
for annual plans or discounts, for example.
Looking at another example,
with the 900 price points available for China,
we see that smallest price steps start this time at 0.5 yuan
and are supported until 10 yuan,
then move to steps of 1 yuan, supported until 200 yuans.
You also have the choice between five conventions.
For lower price points,
you can choose whole numbers or endings in .80 or .90.
For higher price points, you could opt for endings in 9,
like 99, or endings in 8, like 98.
You can request access to the 100 price points above $1,000
by filling out a request form on the developer website
at the address shown on screen.
Once you have chosen a base storefront and a base price,
Apple's automated global pricing features provide you
with a great way to effortlessly price
your content worldwide.
As we've seen in our Germany example,
Apple automatically calculates worldwide prices equalized
to your base price before tax,
following common pricing conventions,
so that customers see great prices
regardless of their region.
Additionally, if you choose automated global pricing,
prices for your apps and one-time in-app purchases
will automatically be updated
to keep you on top of foreign exchange and tax rate changes.
Reprices happen only when specific criteria are met.
Typically, pricing for a storefront will be updated
if its currency strengthens or weakens by at least 10%,
and the change is sustained over a couple of quarters.
This keeps global pricing equalized over time,
but it also keeps prices stable
when foreign exchange rate changes are only short-lived.
Larger foreign exchange rate changes,
like 25% or more, may trigger faster action.
Apple uses publicly available exchange rate information
from financial data providers
to evaluate these changes in foreign exchange.
Prices may also be updated
whenever a country introduces a new tax or a tax change.
It's important to note
that auto-renewable subscription prices
are not automatically adjusted
to account for foreign exchange and tax changes,
but you can update your subscription pricing
at any time in App Store Connect.
Any price change will be notified
by email at least 14 days in advance,
and the new prices will be displayed in App Store Connect
for your review from the time of notice.
When an automatic price change is scheduled,
you'll see it appear in the Upcoming Changes section
of your price schedule on App Store Connect.
New prices will be posted at least 14 days in advance
to give you the opportunity
to review the changes to the impacted storefronts.
We'll explore where and how to review the upcoming changes
in App Store Connect shortly.
For apps and one-time in-app purchases
that were created before the launch
of these new features in March 2023
and that do not have a base storefront,
you may also take this opportunity
to edit your base storefront
if you'd like the reprice to be based on your price
in a storefront other than the US.
You may change your prices at any time
and in any storefront.
Let's see what these global pricing tools look like
in App Store Connect.
I will walk through an example for a consumable,
but the experience would be the same for any content type.
If you set up a price for a new in-app purchase
or if you edit your base storefront,
a screen will prompt you to fill
in your base country or region.
As in our previous example, let's select Germany.
The next step is selecting a base price.
In keeping with our previous example,
let's select 7.99 euro and then click Next.
Apple will automatically generate prices
that are equalized before tax
and follow pricing conventions relevant to each region.
By default, Apple will automatically adjust prices for you.
Alternatively, you can use the dropdown next to each price
to choose different prices for individual storefronts.
If you select your own prices,
Apple won't adjust your pricing
on those storefronts in the future.
Once you have saved your choices,
you can see your base storefront
and selected prices in the Price Schedule section.
You'll see the mention May adjust automatically.
This indicates that prices for listed countries
other than the base
may be automatically updated for foreign exchange and tax.
And whenever one of those automatic reprices happens,
the upcoming changes will be displayed
at least 14 days in advance on App Store Connect.
In the Upcoming Changes section of the Price Schedule,
you will see the effective date,
impacted storefront and new upcoming prices.
In this example, we can see new prices for the UK
and the U.S. starting on January 15, 2024.
The global pricing tools
we've just walked through provide you with a great way
to easily price your apps
and in-app purchases in all storefronts.
Now let's review the additional tools
that can help you manage pricing
and distribution of your content at the storefront level.
Apple's Storefront Management tools enable you
to manually set prices by storefront
either on a temporary or indefinite basis.
And you can also set availability by storefront
for each of your individual
in-app purchases, including subscriptions.
Let's see some examples
of what these storefront price management tools
can help you do.
First, you might have specific marketing needs
in some storefronts that may require custom prices.
For example, you could prefer to market your content
with a different convention in Japan,
for example 980 yen instead of 1000 yen.
Or you might prefer to have the same price
in euro and pounds
despite the difference in foreign exchange and tax rates.
Storefront management tools
may also be relevant to your business
if you need your prices to reflect differences in market
or competitive conditions in certain storefronts.
For example, you could want to set up a lower price in China
to better align with local competition,
let's say a price of 18 Chinese yuan instead of 48 yuan.
There is no limit to the number of storefronts
you can manually manage
and you could have manual prices in the UK, Japan and China
while keeping automatically updated global prices
in the other storefronts.
You can also manually manage prices
for only a short period of time.
For example, you might want to run a seasonal promotion
in Korea specifically.
You could set up a price of 1100 yuan
for a short period of time, let's say a month.
At the end of the month, prices would go back
to being equalized with your price of 7.99 euros.
To summarize, Apple storefront pricing management tools
enable you to set up custom prices
in any number of storefronts.
You can choose your custom price
among the 900 price point options available
in each storefront
and you can set up custom prices
for a limited period of time only or for an indefinite time.
When a price is manually managed,
it cannot be automatically updated
for foreign exchange and tax.
You will be solely responsible for updating prices
as tax and foreign exchange fluctuate.
Let's see where to find
these storefront pricing management tools
in App Store Connect.
When you create a price for the first time
or when you edit your base storefront,
you can click on the dropdown next
to each storefront to select another price.
If you choose this option,
prices in the impacted storefronts
will not be automatically updated ever again
unless you reset prices through a global price change
or edit your base storefront again.
You can also schedule a price change for existing apps
and one-time in-app purchases.
You can do so in the price schedule section
of your in-app purchase by clicking on the plus button.
For apps, you'll find this button in the pricing
and availability section.
Once you do so, you'll be presented
with three price change options.
Select the temporary price change option
if you want to set up a custom price for only a limited time
and select custom price change
if you want to make a permanent change.
If you want to go back to automatically manage prices,
you can always do so by scheduling a global price change.
This will take you back to automatically manage prices
for all storefronts.
Another feature of Apple's storefront management tools
is the option to manage your app
or in-app purchase availability by storefront.
You can choose different availability settings at the app
and in-app purchase level.
For example, you can distribute your app globally
but restrict the availability
of a particular in-app purchase
to the storefronts
where you have secured content distribution rights.
You can manage availability for all content types,
including auto-renewable subscriptions.
You can choose any number of storefronts
where you want to distribute your app and in-app purchase
and you can change the availability at any point in time.
If you decide to change the availability
of an existing auto-renewable subscription,
keep in mind to provide advance notice
to existing customers
before removing your content from sale.
On App Store Connect, you can set up
and change storefront availability
in the Availability section of your in-app purchase.
For apps, you'll find this button
in the Pricing and Availability tab.
Now that we've seen the two sets of tools
you can use to manage your global pricing,
let's look at a few examples of these tools in action.
Let's say we're a game developer
and we want to define global pricing for our app, The Coast.
The Coast is a free app,
but we sell several different
in-app purchases, mostly consumables.
Our primary business is in Europe,
but we have a global footprint
as we market our app to customers in China and the US.
We also acquired content rights
for a subscription that extends only to U.S. customers.
Let's walk through three examples
of how we can leverage App Store pricing capabilities
to serve our pricing needs.
First, we'll see how we can set up a new in-app purchase
with Germany as our base storefront
while setting up some custom prices in the U.S. and the UK.
Second, we'll set up a seasonal promotion
for one of our in-app purchases
for our customers in China specifically.
Finally, we'll restrict the availability
of our auto-renewable subscription
to customers in the United States.
Let's start by setting up a new in-app purchase
with custom prices in select markets.
We'll select Germany as the base storefront
for the in-app purchase
and at the same time, we'll select custom prices
in the U.S. and the UK.
Once we do so, the prices in the UK
and the U.S. will not be updated ever again
while prices in the other storefronts
will be automatically equalized based on the German price
and may be updated in the future
for foreign exchange and tax.
Let's walk through the steps
to set up our new in-app purchase prices
in App Store Connect.
In the in-app purchase page,
you can see that the price schedule section
is not filled out yet, so we'll add pricing.
We'll select Germany as our base storefront.
Next, we'll choose a base price
of 7.99 euros and click Next.
On the next page, we see automatically generated prices
that are equalized before tax
and follow pricing conventions relevant to each region.
We see a price of $6.99 in the U.S.,
and 6.99 pounds in the UK.
For this in-app purchase specifically,
we would rather have our U.S. and UK prices aligned
with the euro price
despite the difference in foreign exchange and tax rates.
So we'll start by clicking on the dropdown next
to the U.S. price to select a price of $7.99 instead.
When we do so, we see that the United States
is highlighted in yellow
with a callout saying that Apple won't adjust
the prices for you in the future
to account for changes in tax and foreign exchange rates.
So our price will stay $7.99,
even if there is a significant change
in the euro to U.S. dollar exchange rate.
Now let's do the same for the price in the UK
and select 7.99 pounds.
The same call-out appears for the United Kingdom.
For all the other countries,
we want to leverage the automated global price tools
that maintains prices equalized even as foreign exchange
and tax rate change.
So we are at the end of our edits on this page.
Let's click Next.
Then we can confirm our prices.
We see our base price of £7.99 listed first
and this call-out saying that prices in two countries
will not be automatically adjusted moving forward.
Once we click on Confirm,
we can see our new pricing in the Price Schedule section.
Germany is the base storefront and prices
in 173 storefronts are noted as May Adjust Automatically.
Since prices in a base storefront will never be updated,
this means that prices in 172 storefronts
are equalized to the German price
and may be automatically updated
for foreign exchange and tax.
And we see that two prices are listed as manually adjusted.
Those are prices in the U.S. and the UK
where we have defined custom prices.
These prices will never be automatically updated.
Let's now see how we can set up a promotion
for Chinese customers specifically.
We can do so by scheduling a temporary price change.
We can schedule a price change in China only
so that Chinese customers are the only impacted customers.
During the whole duration of the promotion,
there can be no automatic reprice for prices in China.
When the promotion ends,
prices in China will again be equalized to the German price.
Let's walk through the steps
to set up our promotion on App Store Connect.
In the price schedule section,
we see that all global prices are based on the German price,
with 28 yuan being our current price in China.
Now let's schedule a price change
by clicking on the plus sign on our price schedule section.
We'll select the option Temporary Price Change
to set up a lower price in China
for the duration of the promotion.
On the next screen, we can enter
when we want our promotion to start and to end.
Then, we'll select the storefronts
this promotion applies to.
In our case, that's just China.
We'll then enter the price we want for our promotion.
On this screen, we are asked to enter a price
in the storefront of our choice,
and Apple will automatically calculate comparable prices
in the storefronts we've selected.
This is different from selecting a base storefront,
as this step is just here
to help us price our promotion globally
when we want to run it in several storefronts.
In our case, we've only selected China,
so we can directly enter 8 yuan,
which is the price we want for our promotion,
then click through this screen, and the next,
then confirm the change from 28 yuan to 8 yuan.
Now, if we come back to the pricing schedule,
we can see that there is a temporary price change scheduled
with our price of 8 yuan.
During this period,
there can be no automatic price adjustment
to the price in China,
and you'll notice the price is noted as manually adjusted.
After the end of the promotion,
the price in China will be re-equalized to Germany
and may be automatically adjusted
for foreign exchange and tax.
For our last example,
let's see how we can restrict the availability
of our auto-renewable subscription to the U.S. only.
Once we do so, customers outside
the U.S. will no longer be able to purchase,
and if we have existing customers,
they will eventually churn.
As a result, developers need to make sure
they have provided them with advance notice.
Assuming we've done so, let's navigate to App Store Connect.
Once we've navigated to the subscription page,
we can see that the availability is set for all countries.
Let's click on Edit.
We can select any storefront, but in our case,
we want our content to be available to U.S. customers only,
so we'll select the U.S. only.
Once we confirm, we can see
that availability now shows only one storefront, the US.
Any existing subscriber outside of the US
will eventually churn.
And that concludes our examples.
If you're looking for more information,
or would like to reference what we discussed today,
please do visit our developer website,
which is an excellent resource
that you can reference at any time.
With that, I'd like to conclude
our App Store Pricing Capabilities session today.
We hope you have now a comprehensive understanding
of the App Store Pricing capabilities
and you're ready to make the most of the global
and storefront pricing features.
Thank you.